# README.md #

Last updated: 20190410 <br>
Contact Name: Sheila Saia <br>
Contact Email: ssaia at ncsu dot edu <br>

This is the README file for the tabular directory (swat_svi_r_anlysis > data > tabular) of the GitHub repository titled ['paper-yadkin-swat-svi-study'](https://github.com/sheilasaia/paper-yadkin-swat-svi-study). For additional details on these data and the associated publication, visit the perviously mentioned GitHub repository.

## 1. Data Availability ##
Data assocated with the tabular directory is available for download on [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1zWioj-AI2iY1CkmvYIksyQNnrpdL3i_B?usp=sharing).

## 2. File Descriptions & Metadata ##

**Filename**: *output.rch files <br>
**Short Description**: These output.rch files were generated by Soil and Water Assessment Tool (SWAT) as explained by [Suttles et al. (2018)](https://www.fs.usda.gov/treesearch/pubs/56780) and Saia et al. (2019). This directory include output.rch files for the baseline (true\_baseline\_output.rch, miroc\_backcast\_baseline_output.rch, csiro\_backcast\_baseline\_output.rch, hadley\_backcast\_baseline\_output.rch) and each of the four projections (miroc8\_5\_projected\_output.rch, csiro8\_5\_projected\_output.rch, csiro4\_5\_projected\_output.rch, hadley4\_5\_projected\_output.rch) used in this study. <br>
**Metadata**: These output.rch files are generated by SWAT as further explained by Suttles et al. (2018) and Saia et al. (2019).<br>
**Variable Descriptions**:<br>
The output.rch variable descriptions are provided in the [SWAT Documentation](https://swat.tamu.edu/media/69395/ch32_output.pdf) section 32.5 pg 25.<br>

**Filename**: yadkin\_lu\_*.txt files <br>
**Short Description**: These files (yadkin\_lu\_baseline\_reclass\_1992.txt, yadkin\_lu\_miroc8\_5\_2060.txt, yadkin\_lu\_csiro8\_5\_2060.txt, yadkin\_lu\_csiro4\_5\_2060.txt, yadkin\_lu\_hadley4\_5\_2060.txt) were obtained by exporting the summary tables from baseline and projected land use data (see 1.1.2).<br>
**Metadata**: These files are generated by exporting the attribute table of land use results for calculations based on the whole Yadkin-Pee Dee River Watershed (YPD). For example, yadkin\_lu\_baseline\_reclass\_1992.txt is the attribute table associated with the yadlurec\_1992 raster file (see swat_svi_python_analysis > data > spatial), which was obtained by exporting the attribute table via ESRI ArcGIS.<br>
**Variable Descriptions**:<br>
'Rowid' - Row identification number <br>
'VALUE' - Value of the land use class, which are further explained in the 'DESCRIPTION' column<br>
'COUNT' - The number of 30 x 30 m cells in the YPD that make up a given land use class <br>
'DESCRIPTION' - The description of the land use class<br>
'AREA\_KM2' - The total area of land use for a given class (km<sup/>2</sup>)<br>
'AREA\_PERC' - The percentage of area the land use occupies for the whole YPD (%)<br>

**Filename**: lu\_*\_allsubs.csv files <br>
**Short Description**: These files (lu\_baseline\_1992\_allsubs.csv, lu\_miroc8\_5\_2060\_allsubs.csv, lu\_csiro8\_5\_2060\_allsubs.csv, lu\_csiro4\_5\_2060\_allsubs.csv, lu\_hadley4\_5\_2060\_allsubs.csv) were generated by Python scripts (see 1.2) and are used in the landuse\_analysis.R script (see 2.4).  <br>
**Metadata**: These files are obtained by running Python scripts (see swat_svi_python_analysis > data > spatial) to iterate through each subbasin and calculate the percentage of a given land use class for each subbasin and each land use raster. For example, we used  lu\_baseline\_1992\_area\_calcs.py along with the yadlurec\_1992 raster file to generate these tabular data. The other Python scripts were used to calculate land use areas for each subbasins for the four projection scenarios.<br>
**Variable Descriptions**:<br>
'' - Row identification number <br>
'SUB' - Subbasin identification number <br>
'VALUE' - Value of the land use class, which are further explained in the tabular data of the associated raster files (e.g. yadlurec\_1992)<br>
'AREA\_PERC' - The percentage of area the land use occupies for each subbasin for a particular land use class (%)<br>

**Filename**: kn\_table\_appendix4\_usgsbulletin17b.csv <br>
**Short Description**: This file was created by converting the k<sub/>n</sub> table in Appendix 4 from the USGS Bulletin 17b as referenced in Saia et al. (2019). <br>
**Metadata**: See Short Description <br>
**Variable Descriptions**:<br>
'sample\_size' - Observed data sample size (i.e., n)<br>
'kn\_value' - k<sub/>n</sub> coefficient for log-Pearson III streamflow analysis<br>

**Filename**: us\_svi\_2014\_albers.txt <br>
**Short Description**: This file was derived from spatial SVI data obtained on the ATSDR website (https://svi.cdc.gov/data-and-tools-download.html) for all census tracts in the United States but does not include spatial data (i.e., it was obtained by exporting the attribute data in ESRI ArcGIS). It was projected to United States of America Contiguous Albers Equal Area Conic USGS projection using ESRI ArcGIS; we did not check the 'preserve shape' box. <br>
**Metadata**: This file is the exported attribute table from the US-wide 2010-2014 census tract social vulnerability index (SVI) dataset that was downloaded from the ATSDR website (https://svi.cdc.gov/data-and-tools-download.html). This dataset is not included in this repository because it is publically available.<br>
**Variable Descriptions**:<br>
See metadata on the ATSDR website (https://svi.cdc.gov/data-and-tools-download.html) for a complete list of variable descriptions<br>

**Filename**: us\_svi\_2014\_albers\_reformatted.txt <br>
**Short Description**: This file is the reformatted version of us\_svi\_2014\_albers.txt. Reformatting was done using the svi\_reformatted.R script (see 2.2). <br>
**Metadata**: See Short Description<br>
**Variable Descriptions**:<br>
'fips' - US Census Bureau census tract FIPS code <br>
'state_abbrev' - Two-digit state abbreviation<br>
'counyt_name' - County name<br>
'svi\_theme1' - SVI theme 1 value<br>
'svi\_theme1\_percentile' - SVI theme 1 value percentile <br>
'svi\_theme2' - SVI theme 2 value<br>
'svi\_theme2\_percentile' - SVI theme 2 value percentile<br>
'svi\_theme3' - SVI theme 3 value<br>
'svi\_theme3\_percentile' - SVI theme 3 value percentile<br>
'svi\_theme4' - SVI theme 4 value<br>
'svi\_theme4\_percentile' - SVI theme 4 value percentile<br>
'svi\_total' - SVI total value (sum of themes 1 to 4)<br>
'svi\_total\_percentile' - SVI total value percentile<br>

**Filename**: svibd\_2014\_scaling\_allsubs.csv <br>
**Short Description**: This file includes the scaling factors to convert cenus tract SVI data to the subbasin scale. It was generated using the svibd\_2014\_scaling\_calcs.py script described in 1.2.<br>
**Metadata**: See Short Description<br>
**Variable Descriptions**:<br>
'' - Row idenfitication number <br>
'SUB' - Subbasin identification number <br>
'fips' - US Census Bureau census tract FIPS code <br>
'tract_perc' - Percent of the census tract in a given subbasin (%), for example 1 means that 100% of the census tract is in the subbasin<br>
'sub_perc' - Percentage of the subbasin that that census tract takes up (%), for example 0.01 means that 1% of the subbasin area is made up of that census tract<br>

**Filename**: hiflow\_10yr\_change\_calcs.csv <br>
**Short Description**: This file includes the percent change in number of 10yr flows as calculated using the hiflow\_analysis.R script (see 2.1). <br>
**Metadata**: See Short Description <br>
**Variable Descriptions**:<br>
'RCH' - Subbasin idenfication number<br>
'cutoff\_flow_cms' - 10yr flow determined from log-Pearson III analysis used as a cutoff value for counting the number of greater daily events (m<sup/>3</sup>/s<sup/>-1</sup>)<br>
'n\_base\_flows' - Number of days where streamflow was greater than the 10yr cutoff flow in the baseline dataset<br>
'n\_proj\_flows' - Number of days where streamflow was greater than the 10yr cutoff flow in the projection dataset<br>
'perc\_change\_per\_yr' - Percent change in the number of 10yr or greater flows between the baseline and projection datasets all normalized by the number of years in the simulation (% change/yr<sup/>-1</sup>)<br>
'dataset' - Dataset name <br>
'SUB' - Subbasin identification number, this is identical to the 'RCH' column<br>
'AREAkm2' - Area of the subbasin in km<sup/>2</sup><br>

**Filename**: hiflow\_outlier\_change\_calcs.csv <br>
**Short Description**: This file includes the percent change in number of outlier flows as calculated using the hiflow\_analysis.R script (see 2.1). <br>
**Metadata**: See Short Description <br>
**Variable Descriptions**:<br>
'SUB' - Subbasin identification number,
'dataset' - Dataset name <br>
'minor\_outlier\_perc\_change' - Percent change in the number of minor outlier or greater flows between the baseline and projection datasets (% change)<br>
'minor\_outlier\_perc\_change_per_yr' - Percent change in the number of minor outlier or greater flows between the baseline and projection datasets all normalized by the number of years in the simulation (% change/yr<sup/>-1</sup>)<br>
'major\_outlier\_perc\_change' - Percent change in the number of major outlier or greater flows between the baseline and projection datasets (% change)<br>
'major\_outlier\_perc\_change_per_yr' - Percent change in the number of major outlier or greater flows between the baseline and projection datasets all normalized by the number of years in the simulation (% change/yr<sup/>-1</sup>)<br>

**Missing data codes**<br>
'NA' indicates missing data unless otherwise noted.
